# Summarizing “Refactoring UI by Steve Schoger” Chapter 1 - Start from scratch

## SUMMARY
 * Always start with a feature and not a layout - This makes it easier when coming up with a design plan.
 * Details comes later - In the earliest stages of designing a new feature, it’s important that you don’t get hung up making low-level decisions about        things like typefaces, shadows, icons, etc.
 * Don’t design too much - You don’t need to design every single feature in an app before you move on to implementation.
 * Choose a personality - Every design has some sort of personality, choose one and apply it where it seems fit.
 * Limit your choices - So you don't end up working in circles. And helps you to be creative.


# Summarizing Read “Designing User Interfaces by Michał Malewicz, Diana Malewicz” chapters 1 - 6

## SUMMARY
* UX or User Experience defines and studies how easy it is to use the product. With digital products, that means the interface, navigation
  patterns, and communications. The goal of UX is to allow the largest possible group of users the ability to understand and use a product.
* UI or User Interface is the visual representation of a digital product. Its obvious use cases are apps and websites. Ul is the link between the
  user and the functionality of a product. It helps to achieve the desired outcome through a series of human-machine interactions.
* An interface is a mix of grid, layout, typography, colors, animations, and microinteractions. In other words, Ul is all that we experience 
* CX or Customer Experience is often confused as being another name for UX. The truth is that CX is a top-level process that defines not only
  how your product works, but how your entire company operates.
  
### What make UI good?
* Good design is innovative.
* Good design makes a product useful. (Usability)
* Good design is aesthetic.
* Good design is Long lasting.
* Good design is unobtrusive.
* Good design is enviromental friendly.
