## a)	Describe what you understand by Scrum and elaborate on some of it’s benefits in software development. ##

Scrum is an agile development methodology used in the development of software based on an iterative and incremental processes. Scrum is adaptable, fast, flexible and effective agile framework that is designed to deliver value to the customer throughout the development of the project. The primary objective of Scrum is to satisfy the customer’s need through an environment of transparency in communication, collective responsibility and continuous progress. 

Scrum is a framework that helps teams work together. Much like a rugby team training for the big game, scrum encourages teams to learn through experiences, self-organize while working on a problem, and reflect on their wins and losses to continuously improve.

In Scrum, the team focuses on building quality software. The owner of a scrum project focuses on defining what are the characteristics that the product must have to build and to overcome any obstacle that could hinder the task of the development team.

**The Scrum team consists of the following;**
1.	Scrum master: The person who leads the team guiding them to comply with the rules and processes of the methodology.
2.	Product owner (PO): Is the representative of the stakeholders and customers who use the software. They focus on the business part and is responsible for the ROI of the project. 
3.	Team: A group of professionals with the necessary technical knowledge who develop the project jointly carryout the goal of the team.

**Some events in Scrum include:**
1.	**Sprint** – the basic unit of work for a Scrum team. 
2.	**Sprint Planning** – The goal here is to define what is going to be done in the Sprint and how it is going to be done.
3.	**Daily Scrum** – the objective is to evaluate the progress and trend until the end of the sprint.
4.	**Sprint Review** – the goal is to show what work has been completed with regards to the product backlog for future deliveries.
5.	**Sprint Retrospective** – the team reviews the completed goals of the finished sprint, write down the good and the bad, so as to not to repeat the mistakes again. The goal is to identify possible improvements and generate a plan to implement them in the next sprint.

## Benefits of Scrum in software development ## 

Scrum has many advantages over other agile development methodologies. It is currently the most used and trusted framework reference in the software industry. Below are some of the known benefits of Scrum
1.	**Easily Scalable** – Scrum processes are iterative and are handled within specific work periods, which makes it easier for the team to focus on definite functionalities for each period. This not only has the benefit of achieving better deliverables in line with the needs of the user, but also gives the ability to the teams to scale the modules in terms of functionality, design, scope and characteristics in an orderly, transparent and simple manner.
2.	**Compliance of Expectations** - The client establishes their expectations indicating the value that each requirement/ history of the project brings, the team estimates them and with this information the Product Owner establishes its priority. On a regular basis, in the sprint demos, the Product Owner verifies that the requirements have been met and transmits feedback to the team.
3.	**Flexible to changes** - 
Quick reaction to changes in requirements generated by customer needs or market developments. The methodology is designed to adapt to the changing requirements that complex projects entail.
4.	**Time to market reduction** - The client can start using the most important functionalities of the project before the product is completely ready.
5.	**Higher software quality** - The working method and the need to obtain a functional version after each iteration, helps to obtain a higher quality software.
6.	**Timely prediction** - the average speed of the team by sprint with which, consequently, it is possible to estimate when a certain functionality that is still in the backlog will be available.
7.	**Reduction of risks** - the fact of carrying out the most valuable functionalities in the first place and of knowing the speed with which the team advances in the project, allows to clear risks effectively in advance.


## b)	From Agile Manifesto, complete the following; ##

1.	Individuals and interactions over process and tools.
2.	Working software over comprehensive documentation
3.	Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
4.	Responding to change over following a plan

