# MODEL SIMILAR TO THE OSI MODEL.
    The OSI model (Open system interconnection Model), describes how data is transferred from one computer to another in a computer network. it comprises of seven layers.
    A model similar to this model is the SS7 layer model (Signaling System Number-7), this system was developed in 1983 by the communication commitee of information of telephony and telegraphy. this model describes the transmission of Communication (voice call and messages) from a user on one end to another user on the other end, this transmission process is in layers, and some of this layers have a quite similar functions as layers in the OSI models. this layers and their functions include;
    1. Level 1-(Physical layer): This is the physical layer of connectivity, it is virtually same as layer-1 of the OSI model. it specifies what interface would be used, that which support 56 or 64kbs data rate.
    2. Level-2 (Data link layer/message transfer part level-2): it provides the network with delivery of all SS7 message packets. similar to the OSI models,the data link layer is only concerned with transmision of data from node to node.
    3. Level-3(Network level/message transfer part-3): it depends on the services of level-2 to provide routing, message discrimination and message distribution function.
    4. level-4(Protocol, user and Application parts): it consist of several protocols, user parts and application parts;
        i. TCAP (Transaction Capabilities Application Part): facilitates connection to an external database.
        ii. SSCP (Signaling Connection Control Part): Is a higher level protocol than MTP that provides end-to-end routing. SCCP is required for routing TCAP messages to thier proper database.
        iii. OMAP (Operation, Maintenance, and Administration Part): define messages and protocols to administer SS7 nettworks. the functions include validation of route and diagnosis of links.