# CIL Module 1-Group 5 Monday task

> ## **TASK 2:**

Write an article on UI/UX Fundamentals, submit as a markdown file in your student folder, raise a PR.

> ## **ANSWER:**

## **Fundamentals of UI and UX**

## What is UI Design?

UI design is the process of making interfaces in software or computerized devices with a focus on looks or style. Designers aim to create designs users will find easy to use and pleasurable.

The goal of user interface design is to make the user’s interaction as simple and efficient as possible. 

## Why is UI design important? 

User interface design is important because it can make or break your customer base. It can be the difference between a successful app/website and one that fails. It can also mean the difference between customers staying on your site or leaving it.

The user interface (UI) design is the actual look and feel of the website. It’s what you see on the screen and interact with. You can think of it as the website’s “skin”. The UI includes colors, typography, page layouts, buttons, and other visual elements that are used in web design.

It’s crucial to have a beautiful and consistent UI to create an enjoyable user experience (UX).


## What is UX Design?

UX designers are tasked with shaping the overall user experience of a website or web application, focusing on how it feels, functions, and looks.

In other words, good UX design is all about making sure that a visitor to your site has a good experience when they’re there.

User experience (UX) design is the process design teams use to create products that provide meaningful and relevant experiences to users. This involves the design of the entire process of acquiring and integrating the product, including aspects of branding, design, usability, and function.

UX design is the process of enhancing user satisfaction with a product by improving the usability, accessibility, and pleasure provided in the interaction with the product. User experience design encompasses traditional human-computer interaction (HCI) design and extends it by addressing all aspects of a product or service as perceived by users.

User experience design consists of traditional elements of design and engineering integrated with scientific disciplines such as psychology, sociology, and anthropology. UX designers are responsible for the overall feel of a product or service.

## Why is UX design important? 

In the case of a website, UX design includes everything from aesthetics to whether or not a site is usable, and it plays a vital role in your company’s success. Customers who have positive experiences are likely to return, while those who don’t can form negative opinions of your brand that they’ll share with others.

In the case of a product, UX designers are responsible for the user experience (UX) of a product. Their job is to ensure that the product logically flows from one step to the next. UX designers solve for usability first and aesthetics second.

## Difference between UI and UX design

|                                                UI Design                                                 |                                                      UX Design                                                       |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|                                    Focus on making things look good.                                     |                            Focus on making sure that a product is easy for people to use.                            |
| Focuses on making sure each screen looks its best visually and serves its purpose in an overall product. | They’re concerned with optimizing the flow of information – how easy it is for users to get from point A to point B. |

## Conclusion

UI and UX work together but are different. UX design is more analytical. It’s rooted in cognitive behaviour and human psychology. UI design software is focused more on the visuals—or whether a product is aesthetically pleasing.

*UX is more to do with the actual functionality and content of a website or app, while UI is the look and feel and how people interact with it.*