TCP/IP MODEL

Transfer Control Protocol / Internet Protocol.

Definition:
The TCP/IP model is a concise version of the OSI model. It is a set of a set of protocols
that supports communication.
Two computers sharing network with the help of a LAN cable sharing data with the help
of network interface card (NIC) forms a network. The process of sending messages
through a wire or wireless medium is called communication. The message can be a file, a
voice conversation, a streaming video or anything which can be communicated in digital
form.
This messages are not sent as a simple unit, instead they are broken into small data
units. This data units are transmitted through the network and restored at the receiver
into the original message.
TCP/IP breaks down messages into small data units called segments and hands them off
to IP, which deals with routing segments through the network to their final destination.

Characteristics of TCP/IP Model:
● TCP is highly reliable but very slow.
● TCP is a model designed to support network communications even if the OS
  is from a different manufacturer.
● TCP model is a practical model developed to meet the needs of the original
  internet design.

TCP/IP Protocol Layers consists of different protocols bundled as layers;

 LAYERS PROTOCOLS
1. Application HTTP, FTP, DNS, POP3
2. Transport TCP, UDP
3. Network IP, ICMP, ARP
4. Data Link ETHERNET
5. Physical ETHERNET

The Application Protocol.
It is the first protocol on the list and it generates a message. The message is passed to the lower
layers at the sending node, where each layer encapsulates the message from the above layer.
The message sent becomes larger and larger as it passes down the chain. The data unit in the
application layer is called an application message.
In the data link, it is called an Ethernet Frame.
In the network layer, it is called an IP packet.
In the transport layer, it is called a TCP segment.
The peer layer removes the header at the receiving node and passes the remainder, upward
layer-by-layer till the message finally reaches the application layer.

The Physical Layer.
The place where actual communication takes place. The physical layer converts binary sequence
into signals and transmits them over to local media.
Signals can be electrical if the local media is Copper Cable or LAN cable. The light signal in case
of Optical Fiber and a Radio signal incase of Air/Vacuum.
The signal generated by the physical layer depends on the type of media used to connect the
devices.
Ethernet is mostly used in this layer. The protocol also specifies the type of cables that can be
used for data transmission.
If the protocol used is Ethernet, the twisted pair cable, Coaxial cable, or fibre optic cable is used
for data transmission. If the protocol used is fast Ethernet or Gigabit ethernet; the twisted pair or
fiber optics cable can be used as local media.
The Data Link Layer.
The data unit in the data link layer is called an Ethernet frame. Data link layer is
subdivided into 2 groups.
1. Medium-access control or MAC sublayer.
2. Logical link control or LLC sublayer.
The MAC sublayer is responsible for Data encapsulation, and accessing the media.
In data encapsulation, the MAC sublayer adds a header and a trailer to the IP packets
received from the network layer.
The MAC addresses of the sender/receiver is contained in the header.
The trailer contains 4 bytes of error checking data used to detect errors in the received
Ethernet frame.
Mac Sublayer.
MAC address is a unique 6-byte address embedded in the NIC of a device by its
manufacturer.
For accessing the media, the method Ethernet uses is called Carrier Sense Multiple
Access/Collision Detection or CSMA/CD.
Each computer listens to the cable before sending data through the network. A
transmission occurs if the network is clear. If the first computer is already transmitting
on the cable, the second computer will wait and try again when the line is clear.
A collision occurs when two computers tries to transmit at the same time. The
transmission is stopped when a collision occurs and the computers waits a random
amount of time before attempting to retransmit.
Collisions are normal but the delays caused by collision and retransmission is very
small and does not affect the speed of transmission of the network.
Logical Link Control/LLC sublayer.
Offers flow control and error control. Flow control is a technique that restricts the
amount of data that a sender can send without overwhelming the receiver. The
receiving device have a limited processing speed and a limited memory to store
the incoming data. The incoming data will be lost if the limits are exceeded. To
avoid this, the receiver informs the sender to slow down the transmission rate
before these limits are met. In the data link layer, flow controls restricts the number
of frames the sender can send without overwhelming the receiver.


The Network Layer.
The transport layer passes TCP segments to the Network Layer. The network layer adds
logical addresses or IP addresses to the TCP segments to form IP packets and then
uses routers to send the IP packets to other networks. It also determines the best path
for data delivery.
network layer functions are:
1. Logical Addressing
2. Routing
3. Path Determination
IP is the single standard protocol for this layer.
Logical Addressing:
Every computer in a network has a unique IP address. The network layer assigns
sender and receiver’s IP addresses to each segment to form an IP Packet. IP
addresses are assigned to ensure that each IP packet can reach the correct
destination present in different networks.
Routing
Routing is a method of moving an IP packet from source to destination present in
different networks. Routing is not needed if the source and destination computers are
present in the same network.
If the communication is within a network, the ARP module takes the destination IP
address from the IP packet and returns the MAC address of the destination computer. It
is then used to create an Ethernet frame which is delivered directly to the destination as
it is present in the same network, . no routing is needed.
But if the message is being sent to a node outside a network, the network layer moves
the message from sender to receiver through routers.
Path Determination.
Path determination is the process of choosing the path for data delivery from
source to destination.
Lay 3 devices use protocols such as OSPF (Open Shortest Path First), BGP
(Border Gateway Protocols), IS-IS(Intermediate System to Intermediate System)
to determine the best possible path for data delivery.


Transport Layer
When sending, the transport layer receives the message from the application layer. As
soon as the message reaches the transport layer then either of the transport layer
protocols is selected. TCP supports segmentation, so for large messages, TCP divides
it into smaller pieces and adds a header to form a TCP segment.
is reliable and guarantees in-order delivery of data from the sender to the receiver. The
data transmission via TCP has three phases:
Connection establishment
Data transfer
Connection termination
Connection establishment phase is the process where a sender TCP or client
sends a packet to the receiver TCP or server requesting a connection. The server
sends an ACK to the client, and the client also acknowledges the server.
Data Transfer; when connection is established, the next phase is the Data
Transfer. In this stage, TCP offers some key features which UDP does not
provide..
Some of this features includes..
Error-free data transfer
ordered-data transfer
Retransmission of lost data
Discarding duplicate packets, and
Congestion throttling.


The Application Layer
This is used by user applications that pass messages from one computer to
another in a network. E.g Firefox, google chrome, microsoft, Internet Explorer,
Outlook, etc. These user applications do not reside in the application layer, but
they use the application layer protocols to perform their activities.
For example, web browsers use HTTP or HTTPS – to do web surfing. Email
programs, such as Microsoft Outlook, use post office protocol (POP) or the Simple
Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) for transferring emails.
So, the application layer provides means to access information on the network.

List of protocols provided by the application protocol.
DNS
Domain Name System translates IP addresses into Domain Names and vice-versa.
DHCP
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol automatically assign IP addresses to computers present in
the network.
FTP
File Transfer Protocol is used to transfer files on the Internet
HTTP
HyperText Transfer Protocol is used for sending and receiving webpages
IMAP
Internet Message Access Protocol is used for email messages on the Internet
IRC
Internet Relay Chat protocol is used for Internet chat.
POP3
Post Office Protocol Version 3 is used by email clients to retrieve messages from remote servers
SMTP
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol is used for email messages on the Internet
