# Task 6a

## SCRUM

Software is developed using the agile Scrum approach, which is focused on incremental and iterative procedures. Scrum is an agile framework that is quick, flexible, effective, and designed to offer value to the customer throughout the project's development. Scrum's primary objective is to satisfy the needs of the customer by fostering a culture of open communication, shared accountability, and constant improvement. The development process begins with a general understanding of what must be created, developing a list of qualities (the product backlog) that the owner of the product wishes to achieve.

## Benefits of Scrum Methodology

Scrum has many advantages over other agile development methodologies. It is currently the most used and trusted framework of reference in the software industry.
Below are some of the known benefits of Scrum:

- Easily Scalable: It is simpler for the team to concentrate on certain capabilities for each period because Scrum procedures are iterative and managed within defined work intervals. The teams will be able to scale the modules in terms of functionality, design, scope, and characteristics in an orderly, clear, and straightforward manner, which has the added benefit of producing superior deliverables that are in accordance with the needs of the user.

- Compliance of expectations: Each requirement or aspect of the project's history is valued according to the client's expectations, which are estimated by the team, and the Product Owner determines the priority of each based on this data. The Product Owner regularly confirms that the requirements have been satisfied and provides feedback to the team during the sprint demos.

- Flexible to changes: Quick response to requirements changes generated by client needs or market developments. The technique is made to change with the demands that complicated projects place on it.

- Time to Market reduction: The client can start using the most important functionalities of the project before the product is completely ready.

- Higher software quality: The working method and the need to obtain a functional version after each iteration, helps to obtain a higher quality software.

- Timely Prediction: By using this process, we are able to determine the average team sprint speed (story points), which allows us to predict when a specific piece of backlog feature will become available.
- Reduction of risks: The ability to successfully mitigate hazards in advance is made possible by performing the most crucial functions first and by being aware of the team's rate of project advancement.

# UI/UX FUNDAMENTALS

Two of the phrases used in web and app design that get mixed up and confused the most are UI design and UX design. They are frequently combined into one term, and they appear to be describing the same thing on the surface.

## What is User Interface (UI) Design?

UI design is the process of making interfaces in software or computerized devices with a focus on looks or style. Designers aim to create designs users will find easy to use and pleasurable.

The term was coined by Joel Spolsky in 1995 when he launched the first discussion forum for UI designers, calling it the “User Interface Design Group”.

The goal of user interface design is to make the user’s interaction as simple and efficient as possible.

Good user interface design facilitates finishing the task at hand without drawing unnecessary attention to itself. Graphic design and typography are utilized to support its usability, influencing how the user performs certain interactions and improving the aesthetic appeal of the design; design aesthetics may enhance or detract from the ability of users to use the functions of the interface.

UI design is the process of creating products that are both useful and easy to use, by thinking about users’ needs and how they will interact with the product.

UI design, at its core, is focused on the user interface — anything that a user interacts with. This encompasses everything from buttons and icons to drop-down menus and sliders to text fields and images. The purpose of UI design is to envision how these components can be combined into interactive interfaces that are both functional and appealing.

## Why is the user interface design important?

User interface design is crucial since it has the power to increase or decrease your clientele. It may mean the difference between an app or website succeeding or failing. It may also determine whether visitors to your website remain or leave.

The most obvious reason to invest in strong user interface design is for commercial gain: if you want people to use your website, download your app, or make a purchase from you, you need to prevent them from giving up in frustration before they convert.

## What is UX design?

The method design teams employ to produce products that offer customers meaningful and pertinent experiences is known as user experience (UX) design. This includes characteristics of branding, design, usability, and function as well as the design of the complete process of purchasing and integrating the product.

By making a product more usable, accessible, and enjoyable to interact with, UX design works to increase user happiness with the product. User experience design extends conventional human-computer interaction (HCI) design by taking into account every element of a good or service as it is seen by customers.

## THE FOUR KEY ELEMENTS OF THE UX DESIGN PROCESS

1. Behavior
2. Strategy
3. Usability
4. Validation

- Behavior: UX designers work with people by learning about their habits and goals, identifying needs and constraints, and aligning with existing behaviors to create solutions that are easy to use (efficient) and solve a real problem (effective).

- Strategy: In UX, strategy is about understanding where an existing product or process can be improved and communicating this effectively to internal teams and external users through responsive design. Fundamentally, UX is about design empathy, which means translating user needs into actionable solutions.

- Usability: Usability is about creating products that anyone can use, especially if they have a disability or impairment. Usability is also about accessibility, which means that physical constraints or disabilities don’t prohibit or impede someone’s use of a product or service. Good design is about helping humans.

- Validation: Finally, validation is a critical piece of the UX process. Ideally products need to be tested with users before they are deployed to the public. Unfortunately, this is not always the case with companies that are eager to launch their products out into the world. The UX process emphasizes testing with real users early and often in order to ensure that the design solves the right problem. Validation is proof that you have successfully solved a problem for your user.

## Conclusion

UI and UX are different but complement one another. UX design requires greater analysis. Its foundations are in human psychology and cognitive behavior. More emphasis is placed on aesthetics in UI design software, or if a product looks good.

The framework or strategy that directs how a designer or team of designers approach a project is known as the UX design process. It's the sequence of processes or actions a designer use to best address a user's issue.

- [LINK1] (https://www.digite.com/agile/scrum-methodology/#scrum-benefits)
- [LINK2] (https://palette69.design/thinking/fundamentals-of-ui-and-ux/)
- [LINK3] (https://generalassemb.ly/blog/user-experience-fundamentals-4-key-elements-ux-design-process/)

# 6b

### From the Agile Manifesto, complete the following:

- Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
- Working software over comprehensive documentation
- Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
- Responding to change over following a plan
